Release 2.43.0-rc.0 (#12114)
prometheus/prometheus: CHANGELOG.md

# Changelog

## 2.43.0-rc.0 / 2023-03-09

We are working on some performance improvements in Prometheus, which are

> available behind the go tag `stringlabels` (therefore are not shipped in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only built into Prometheus when compiling it using the Go tag `stringlabels` (therefore they are not shipped in the
```

in most cases. We would like to encourage users who are interested in these
improvements to help us measure the gains on their production architecture.
Building Prometheus from the source with the `stringlabels` go tag and providing
feedback on its effectiveness in their specific use cases would be incredibly
helpful to us. #10991

* [FEATURE] Promtool: Add HTTP client configuration to query commands. #11487
* [FEATURE] Scrape: Add `include_scrape_configs` to include scrape configs from different files. #12019
* [FEATURE] HTTP client: Add `no_proxy` to exclude URLs from proxied requests. #12098
* [FEATURE] HTTP client: Add `proxy_from_enviroment` to read proxies from env variables. #12098
* [ENHANCEMENT] API: Add support for setting lookback delta per query via the API. #12088
* [ENHANCEMENT] API: Change HTTP status code from 503/422 to 499 if a request is canceled. #11897
* [ENHANCEMENT] Scrape: Allow exemplars for all metric types. #11984
* [ENHANCEMENT] TSDB: Add metrics for head chunks and WAL folders size. #12013
* [ENHANCEMENT] TSDB: Automatically remove incorrect snapshot with index that is ahead of WAL. #11859

> * [ENHANCEMENT] TSDB: Improve Prometheus parser error outputs to be more comprehensive. #11682

Reviewer: comprehensive or comprehensible? I assume the latter, right?

* [ENHANCEMENT] UI: Scope `group by` labels to metric in autocompletion. #11914
* [BUGFIX] Scrape: Fix `prometheus_target_scrape_pool_target_limit` metric not set before reloading. #12002

> * [BUGFIX] TSDB: Correctly update chunks removed and chunks metrics when reading WAL. #11858

Reviewer: I would reference the actual metric names here, not what they are called in the Go code.

> * [BUGFIX] TSDB: Observe delta in seconds `prometheus_tsdb_sample_ooo_delta`. #12004

Reviewer: The PR's description here was a bit lacking, how about:

```suggestion
* [BUGFIX] TSDB: Use the correct unit (seconds) when recording out-of-order append deltas in the `prometheus_tsdb_sample_ooo_delta` metric. #12004
```
